CARDANO BLOCKCHAIN ECOSYSTEM INTERIM CONSTITUTION ### INTRODUCTORY NOTES This is an interim minimum viable constitution containing such provisions and guardrails as are necessary for CIP-1694 to come into effect. It is intended to be temporary. The Final Constitution must be ratified by Ada holders. Such ratification is expected to occur at the end of 2024 or the beginning of 2025. Therefore, the Final Constitution may differ, potentially significantly, from this Interim Constitution based on the desires of the Cardano community. During 2024, a series of workshops will be held all around the world allowing the Cardano community to participate in the process of completing the Final Constitution. Additionally, the Final Constitution will require the approval of Ada holders before coming into effect. Such approval is expected to occur in the beginning of 2025. However, given that on-chain governance will come into existence during 2024, requiring a robust constitution and constitutional committee before the Final Constitution has been ratified, this Interim Constitution must contain such provisions and guardrails as are necessary to support and give effect to the needs and requirements of CIP-1694, assuring that the principles identified in this Interim Constitution are not compromised, until the date on which the Final Constitution is ratified. In approaching this Interim Constitution, it must be remembered that this is not a constitution for only a blockchain but rather, it is a constitution for a blockchain ecosystem – a much more ambitious endeavor. Accordingly, how governance actions are approved, while extremely important, is not the sole focus of this Interim Constitution. Rather, this Interim Constitution provides the basis and fundamental framework through which all actors in the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem can come together to govern themselves and form radically new approaches to human interaction and collaboration. By necessity, this Interim Constitution recognizes the role of and empowers the Constitutional Committee, confirms the right of the Cardano community to participate in collective bodies for collaboration, gives effect to on-chain governance, and empowers delegated representatives (referred to as DReps) to act as the voice of Ada holders for on-chain voting. The Interim Constitution also recognizes the necessity of safeguarding access to and the use of funds of the Cardano treasury during an interim period through the inclusion of the Cardano Guardrails in this Interim Constitution. ### PREAMBLE In the beginning of the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem, three pioneering entities, IOHK, Emurgo, and the Cardano Foundation, came together to foster the emergence of a new blockchain, the Cardano Blockchain, laying the foundation for a decentralized network that would empower individuals, and promote collaboration and innovation. Their pioneering efforts have shaped the path for a blockchain designed to ensure a fair and transparent environment where all participants can contribute to the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem’s growth and success. Over time, the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem has expanded significantly, and now, the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem, comprising of thousands of Ada holders, individuals, builders, developers, enterprises, stake pools, users of the Cardano Blockchain and others, operates in a truly decentralized manner, further strengthening the resilience and autonomy of the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem. As the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem continues to grow, it has become imperative to similarly adapt and evolve its governance model, reflecting the principles of decentralization, community involvement, inclusivity and collaboration that have been the cornerstone of the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem since its start. Recognizing the need for a more robust and dynamic governance framework, and one that utilizes wherever possible and beneficial blockchain technology in the governance process, the Cardano community, as the members of this decentralized Cardano Blockchain ecosystem, hereby establishes this Cardano Interim Constitution. It shall serve as a guiding set of principles for the operation and governance of our collective efforts, fostering an environment where all participants can contribute to the betterment of the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem as a whole. Together, the Cardano community commits to uphold the principles in this Interim Constitution and to work together towards the continuous improvement, growth, and success of our decentralized blockchain ecosystem known as the Cardano Blockchain. This Interim Constitution shall serve as the embodiment of the guiding principles for the operation and governance of the decentralized Cardano Blockchain ecosystem, providing a foundation that will adapt and evolve over time to meet the continuing needs of the Cardano community. All members of the Cardano community are expected to abide by this Interim Constitution, and are entitled to participate in its governance processes, including completing a Final Constitution to be ratified by Ada holders, and are encouraged to work collaboratively towards the betterment of the Cardano Blockchain ecosystem as a whole, contributing to its growth, sustainability, and success.
